%Strecker - S97 topology QE
% latex file
\def\hcorrection#1{\advance\hoffset by #1 }
\def\vcorrection#1{\advance\voffset by #1 }

\input amssym.def   %defines Bbb and gothic (frak)
\input amssym       %defines Bbb and gothic (frak)

%\documentstyle[bbb]{report}
\documentclass[bbb]{report}
\vcorrection{-0.8in}
\hcorrection{-1.3in}

\topmargin  0in
\textwidth 7.2in
\textheight 9.5in

\def\ds{\displaystyle}

\begin{document}

\pagestyle{empty}

\begin{Large}
\begin{center}
{\bf   TOPOLOGY QUALIFYING EXAM \\
   Spring 1997 \\
   (Maginnis and Strecker)} \\
\end{center}
\end{Large}

\begin{large}

\vspace{.1in}
{\bf Choose and work any 6 of the following 14 problems. Start
each problem on a new sheet of paper. \underbar{Do not turn in
more than six problems.} In the problems below, a space always
means a topological space.}

\vspace{.5in}

\begin{description}
{\bf
\item[1.]  Prove that a space $Y$ is Hausdorff if and only if for
every space $X$ and every pair of continuous functions $f:X\to Y$
and $g:X\to Y$, the set $\left\{x\in X|f(x)=g(x)\right\}$ is
closed in $X$.

\vspace{.5in}

\item[2.] Prove that every continuous function $f:X\to Y$ between
topological spaces has a factorization $f=g\circ h\circ k$, where
$k$ is a quotient map, $h$ is a bijective continuous function,
and $g$ is a topological imbedding.

\vspace{.5in}

\item[3.] Let $x\in X$ be a cluster point of a net
$\alpha:\Lambda\to X$. Prove that $x$ is a cluster point of the
filter generated by the net $\alpha$.

\vspace{.5in}

\item[4.] Let $I$ be the interval $[0,1]$ in the usual topology,
and give $I\times I$ the product topology. Let $f:I\to I\times I$
be a bijective function. Prove $f$ is not continuous.

\vspace{.5in}

\item[5.] For a space $X$ and a subset $A\subseteq X$, denote by
$C(A)$ the closure $C(A)=\overline A$, and denote by $I(A)$ the
interior $I(A)=A^0$. Consider the sequence $A$, $C(A)$, $IC(A)$,
$CIC(A)$, $ICIC(A)$, $\dots$

\vspace{.5in}

\item[\quad (a)] For any space, what is the largest number of
distinct sets that this sequence can contain?

\vspace{.5in}

\item[\quad (b)] Find $A\subseteq{\Bbb R}$ for which this largest
number is obtained (where the real numbers ${\Bbb R}$ have the
usual topology).

\pagebreak

\hfill page 2
\par

\vspace{.5in}

\item[6.] State the Axiom of Choice, and prove that it is
equivalent to the statement ``The product of any set of nonempty
sets is nonempty."

\vspace{.5in}

\item[7.] Provide an example of a function between spaces that
preserves convergence of sequences, but fails to be continuous.

\vspace{.5in}

\item[8.] Prove that a metrizable space is compact if and
only if it is sequentially compact (i.e., each of its sequences
has a convergent subsequence).

\vspace{.5in}

\item[9.] Prove or disprove: The reals ${\Bbb R}$ (in the usually
topology) can be expressed as a countable union of subsets having
empty interior.

\vspace{.5in}

\item[10.] Let $X$ be a countably compact space (i.e., every
countable open covering has a finite subcovering), and let $Y$ be
a compact space. Prove that the product $X\times Y$ is countably
compact.

\vspace{.5in}

\item[11.] Prove or disprove: Any subspace of a locally connected
space is locally connected. What if the subspace is assumed to be
open?

\vspace{.5in}

\item[12.] Prove that a connected space is path connected if and
only if every path component is open.

\vspace{.5in}

\item[13.] Let $I=[0,1]$, and give $I\times I$ the dictionary 
(i.e., lexicographic) order topology. Prove that $I\times I$ is
not metrizable.

\vspace{.5in}

\item[14.] Let $X\subseteq Y$, and assume $Y$ is a compact
Hausdorff space and that $X$ is dense in $Y$. Let $\beta(X)$ be
the Stone-\v Cech compactification of $X$. Show that there exists
a closed continuous surjection $g:\beta(X)\to Y$ such that
$g(x)=x$ for all $x\in X$. 

}


\end{description}

\end{large}

\end{document}
